Add 'guaranteed delivery messaging' tutorial (#31)
ballerina-guides/integration-tutorials: guaranteed-message-delivery/README.md

# Guaranteed Message Delivery

## Overview

> In this tutorial, you will develop an integration that lets users reserve appointments at a hospital. To manage the flow of requests, you will employ a message broker. A publisher service will accept the appointment requests from users and publish them to a message broker. A consumer service will consume messages from the broker and interact with the hospital service to complete the reservation and send an SMS with the reservation status.

Reviewer: "To manage the flow of requests" or something along the lines of guaranteed reservation requests?

Reviewer: IMO, we need to give the story (based on the underlying pattern/concept) here, rather than the steps.

To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. This resource will handle incoming user requests and forward them to the message broker. The consumer service that listens to the message broker's queue for new appointment requests will trigger a backend call to the hospital to make the reservation and send an SMS to the patient's phone number.

The flow is as follows.

1. The publisher service receives a request with a JSON payload in the following form.

    ```json
    {
        "patient": {
            "name": "John Doe",
            "dob": "1940-03-19",
            "ssn": "234-23-525",
            "address": "California",
            "phone": "+94710889877",
            "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
        },
        "doctor": "thomas collins",
        "hospital_id": "grandoaks",
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "appointment_date": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

> 2. The publisher service publishes the received payload to the message broker.

Reviewer: We can add something indicating responding to the original request here, to say the publisher bit ends there.

            "phone": "8770586755",
            "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
        },
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "confirmed": false,
        "appointmentDate": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

4. The consumer service will then send an SMS to the patient's mobile number notifying the appointment status.

### Concepts covered

- REST API
- Message Broker
- HTTP Client
- Twilio Client

## Develop the application

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

Install [Ballerina Swan Lake](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and the [Ballerina Swan Lake VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina) on VS Code.

### Step 2: Develop the service

Follow the instructions given in this section to develop the service.

1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VS Code.

    ```
    $ bal new guaranteed-message-delivery
    ```

2. Remove the `main.bal` file and open the diagram view in VS Code.

    ![Open diagram view](./resources/open_diagram_view.gif)

3. Create a file named `types.bal` and generate record types corresponding to the request payload by providing samples of the expected JSON payload.

>     The request payload accepting by the service will be a JSON object similar to the following.

Reviewer: accepted or better yet

```suggestion
    The request payload expected by the service will be a JSON object similar to the following.
```

                    doctor,
                    hospital_id: request.hospital_id,
                    hospital: hospital,
                    appointment_date: request.appointment_date,
                    category
                },
                routingKey: queueName
            });

            if response is rabbitmq:Error {
                log:printError("Failed to publish to the message broker", patient = patient.name,
                                                                        doctor = doctor,
                                                                        hospital = hospital);
                return <http:InternalServerError>{body: response.message()};
            }

            return http:CREATED;
        }
    }
    ```

8. Create a file named `consumer.bal` and define the record types needed for the consumer.

    ```ballerina
    type MessageContent record {|
        *ReservationRequest;
        string category;
    |};

    type RabbitMqMessage record {|
        *rabbitmq:AnydataMessage;
        MessageContent content;
    |};
    ```

    ![Define record types for consumer](./resources/define_record_types_for_consumer.gif)

    > **Note:**

>     > Using [record type inclusion](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) allows including all the fields from the included record along with the defined fields.

Reviewer: I think we need to specifically mention something about `RabbitMqMessage` with `rabbitmq:AnydataMessage`.

> 9. Create the `rabbitmq:Service` service listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the `onMessage` remote method that gets called.

Reviewer: Declare the service ...

                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment request at ${hospital
                            } failed. Please try again.`;
            } else {
                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment has been accepted at ${hospital
                            }. Appointment No: ${reservationResponse.appointmentNumber}`;
            }

            twilio:SmsResponse|error smsApiStatus = twilioEp->sendSms(fromNumber, content.patient.phone, smsBody);

            if smsApiStatus !is twilio:SmsResponse {
                log:printError("Failed to send an SMS message", smsApiStatus, phoneNo = content.patient.phone);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    - Extract the necessary values to variables and send a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `hospital_id` and `category` values are used as path parameters.

    - Use the `is` check to decide the flow based on the response to the client call. If the request failed with an error, log the error and set an error message to the `smsBody` variable, else, set a confirmation message.

>     - Call the twilio endpoint with the `smsBody` and, sender's and patient's phone numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Call the Twilio endpoint with the SMS body and the sender's and patient's phone numbers.
```

#### Complete source

<TODO: Complete source code>

### Step 3: Build and run the service

![Run the service](./resources/run_the_service.gif)

> **Note:**
> Alternatively, you can run this service by navigating to the project root and using the `bal run` command.
>
> ```
> guaranteed-message-delivery$ bal run
> Compiling source
>         integration_tutorials/guaranteed-message-delivery:0.1.0
>
> Running executable
> ```

### Step 4: Try out the use case

Let's test the use case by sending a request to the service.

#### Start the backend service

Download the JAR file for the [backend service](https://github.com/ballerina-guides/integration-tutorials/blob/main/backends/hospital-service/hospitalservice.jar) and execute the following command to start the service.

```
$ bal run hospitalservice.jar
```

#### Start the rabbitmq message broker

> Follow the [rabbitmq guidelines ](<link to the guidelines>) to configure and start the rabbitmq message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [rabbitmq guidelines](<link to the guidelines>) to configure and start the rabbitmq message broker.
```

rabbitmq -> RabbitMQ 

Please fix wherever applicable for all applicable terms.

# Guaranteed Message Delivery

## Overview

> In this tutorial, you will create a service that let users reserve appointments at a hospital. To manage the flow of requests, you will employ a message broker. The publisher service will retrieve the appointment requests and forward them to the message broker. The consumer service will listen to the broker's message queue and interact with the hospital's backend and SMS service to finalize the reservation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will develop an integration that lets users reserve appointments at a hospital. To manage the flow of requests, you will employ a message broker. A publisher service will accept the appointment requests from users and publish them to a message broker. A consumer service will consume messages from the broker and interact with the hospital service to complete the reservation and send an SMS with the reservation status.
```

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. This resource will handle incoming user requests and forward them to the message broker. The consumer service that listens to the message broker's queue for new appointment requests will trigger a backend call to the hospital to make the reservation and send an SMS to the patient's phone number.

Reviewer: A broker obviously can have many queues. I would rephrase similar to the previous para.

Reviewer: The second sentence is kinda repetitive anyway. This para is focused more on how exactly the development will happen.

The flow is as follows.

1. The publisher service receives a request with a JSON payload in the following form.

    ```json
    {
        "patient": {
            "name": "John Doe",
            "dob": "1940-03-19",
            "ssn": "234-23-525",
            "address": "California",
            "phone": "+94710889877",
            "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
        },
        "doctor": "thomas collins",
        "hospital_id": "grandoaks",
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "appointment_date": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: Add missing fullstops wherever applicable.

> 2. The publisher service publishes the receiving payload to the message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The publisher service publishes the received payload to the message broker.
```

> 3. The consumer service acquires the message from the message broker, extracts the necessary details (e.g. patient, doctor, hospital) and makes a call to the hospital backend service to request an appointment. A response similar to the following will be returned from the hospital backend service on success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The consumer service consumes the message from the message broker, extracts the necessary details (e.g., patient, doctor, and hospital details) and makes a call to the hospital backend service to request an appointment. A response similar to the following will be returned from the hospital backend service on success.
```

    ```json
    {
        "appointmentNumber": 1,
        "doctor": {
            "name": "thomas collins",
            "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
            "category": "surgery",
            "availability": "9.00 a.m - 11.00 a.m",
            "fee": 7000.0
        },
        "patient": {
            "name": "John Doe",
            "dob": "1940-03-19",
            "ssn": "234-23-525",
            "address": "California",
            "phone": "8770586755",
            "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
        },
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "confirmed": false,
        "appointmentDate": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

> 4. Call the SMS service endpoint to send a message to the patient's mobile number.

Reviewer: Please make sure the flow is consistent.

```suggestion
4. The consumer service will then send an SMS to the patient's mobile number notifying the appointment status.
```

### Concepts covered

- REST API
- Message broker
- HTTP Client

> - Twilio client

Reviewer: Client vs client. Please check consistency.

## Develop the application

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

Install [Ballerina Swan Lake](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and the [Ballerina Swan Lake VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina) on VS Code.

### Step 2: Develop the service

Follow the instructions given in this section to develop the service.

1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VS Code.

    ```
    $ bal new guaranteed-message-delivery
    ```

2. Remove the `main.bal` file and open the diagram view in VS Code.

    ![Open diagram view](./resources/open_diagram_view.gif)

> 3. Create a file named `types.bal` and generate record types corresponding to the payloads from the hospital backend service by providing samples of the expected JSON payload.

Reviewer: We decided to follow the flow for new tutorials? Use the request payload in the example and then say do the same for the rest.

    };

    type Doctor record {
        string name;
        string hospital;
        string category;
        string availability;
        decimal fee;
    };

    type ReservationResponse record {
        int appointmentNumber;
        Doctor doctor;
        Patient patient;
        string hospital;
        boolean confirmed;
        string appointmentDate;
    };
    ```

    Similarly, generate records corresponding to the request payload (e.g., `ReservationRequest`). Delete the duplicate `Patient` record generated.

    > **Note:**
    > While it is possible to work with the JSON payload directly, using record types offers several advantages including enhanced type safety, data validation, and better tooling experience (e.g., completion).

    > **Note:** 
    > When the fields of the JSON objects are expected to be exactly those specified in the sample payload, the generated records can be updated to be [closed records](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/controlling-openness/), which would indicate that no other fields are allowed or expected.

**Now you are going to implement the publsiher's and consumer's logic in two files: `publisher.bal` and `consumer.bal`**

> 4. Create a file named `publisher.bal` and define the [HTTP service (REST API)](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#rest-service) that has the resource that accepts user requests and publish to the message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a file named `publisher.bal` and define the [HTTP service (REST API)](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#rest-service) that has the resource that accepts user requests and publishes the payload to the message broker.
```

Reviewer: Don't we have to talk about configurables, creating clients, etc. first?

     
    - Define an HTTP resource that allows the `POST` operation on the resource path `/categories/{category}/reserve` and accepts the `category` path parameter (corresponding to the specialization). Use `ReservationRequest` as a parameter indicating that the resource expects a JSON object corresponding to `ReservationRequest` as the payload. Use `http:Created` and `http:InternalServerError` as the response types.

        ![Define the resource](./resources/define_a_resource.gif)

        The generated service will be as follows.

        ```ballerina
        service /healthcare on new http:Listener(8290) {
            resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest payload) 
                    returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
                
            }
        }
        ```

5. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the name of the queue.

    ![Define a configurable variable](./resources/define_a_configurable_variable.gif)

    The generated code will be as follows.

    ```ballerina
    configurable string queueName = "ReservationQueue";
    ```

> 6. Create a [rabbitmq: Client](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/rabbitmq/latest#Client) object to forward the message to the message broker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Create a [rabbitmq:Client](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/rabbitmq/latest#Client) object to forward the message to the message broker.
```

        resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest request)
                        returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
            Patient patient = request.patient;
            string doctor = request.doctor;
            string hospital = request.hospital;

            rabbitmq:Error? response = rabbitmqClient->publishMessage({
                content: {
                    patient,
                    doctor,
                    hospital_id: request.hospital_id,
                    hospital: hospital,
                    appointment_date: request.appointment_date,
                    category
                },
                routingKey: queueName
            });

            if response is rabbitmq:Error {
                log:printError("Failed to publish to the message broker", patient = patient.name,
                                                                        doctor = doctor,
                                                                        hospital = hospital);
                return <http:InternalServerError>{body: response.message()};
            }

            return http:CREATED;
        }
    }
    ```

> 

Reviewer: Missing the descriptions of what happens here?

Reviewer: Still the case?

> 8. Create a file named `consumer.bal` and define the record types needed for rabbitmq listener.

Reviewer: Please check for grammar/lang issues.

Also would say consumer, rather than rabbitmq listener..

    ```ballerina
    type MessageContent record {|
        *ReservationRequest;
        string category;
    |};

    type RabbitMqMessage record {|
        *rabbitmq:AnydataMessage;
        MessageContent content;
    |};
    ```

    > **Note:**
    > Using [record type inclusion](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) allows including all the fields from the included record along with the defined fields.

> 9. Define configurations for the SMS service endpoints (e.g. `fromNumber`, `accountSId`, `authToken`) as [configurable variables](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability).

Reviewer: Organization seems incorrect.

> 9. Define configurations for the SMS service endpoints (e.g. `fromNumber`, `accountSId`, `authToken`) as [configurable variables](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability).

Reviewer: e.g. -> e.g.,

                    appointment_date: content.appointment_date
                });

            string smsBody;
            if reservationResponse is http:ClientError {
                log:printError("Reservation request failed", patient = patientName,
                                                            doctor = doctor,
                                                            hospital = hospital);
                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment request at ${hospital
                            } failed. Please try again.`;
            } else {
                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment has been accepted at ${hospital
                            }. Appointment No: ${reservationResponse.appointmentNumber}`;
            }

            twilio:SmsResponse|error smsApiStatus = twilioEp->sendSms(fromNumber, content.patient.phone, smsBody);

            if smsApiStatus !is twilio:SmsResponse {
                log:printError("Failed to send an SMS message", smsApiStatus, phoneNo = content.patient.phone);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

>     -  Create the `rabbitmq:Service` listening on `rabbitmq:Listener` and remote function named `onMessage` which takes a message as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  Create the `rabbitmq:Service` service listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the  `onMessage` remote method that gets called ....
```

We need to describe vs just stating where possible, so that readers understand the concepts.

>     - Extract the necessary values to variables and send a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `hospital_id` and `category` values are ued as path parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Extract the necessary values to variables and send a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `hospital_id` and `category` values are used as path parameters
```

>     - Use the `is` check to decide the flow based on the response to the client call. If the request failed with an error, log the error and set the `smsBody` an error message, else, set is as a confirmation message.

Reviewer: We set something to a variable, currently reads the other way around.

>     - Call the twilio endpoint with configurations (e.g. from number, patient's phone number) and SMS body.

Reviewer: Capitalize appropriately.

>     - Log an error if the calling twilio endpoint fails.

Reviewer: Self-explanatory IMO.

# Guaranteed Message Delivery

## Overview

> In this tutorial, you will develop an integration that lets users reserve appointments at a hospital. A publisher service will accept the appointment requests from users and forward them to a consumer service. A consumer service will consume messages and interact with the hospital service to complete the reservation and send an SMS with the reservation status. To manage the guranteed flow of reservation requests, you will employ a message broker.

Reviewer: I feel like the guaranteed delivery part should come before the second sentence.

> To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. This resource will handle incoming user requests and forward them to the message broker. The consumer service that listens to a queue of the message broker will trigger a backend call to the hospital to make the reservation and send an SMS to the patient's phone number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To implement this use case, you will develop a REST service with a single resource using Visual Studio Code with the Ballerina Swan Lake extension. This resource will handle incoming user requests and forward them to the message broker. The consumer service that listens to a queue of the message broker will trigger a backend call to the hospital to make the reservation and send an SMS to the patient's phone number informing the reservation status.
```

        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "appointment_date": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

2. The publisher service publishes the received payload to the message broker.

3. The consumer service consumes the message from the message broker, extracts the necessary details (e.g., patient, doctor, and hospital details) and makes a call to the hospital backend service to request an appointment. A response similar to the following will be returned from the hospital backend service on success.

    ```json
    {
        "appointmentNumber": 1,
        "doctor": {
            "name": "thomas collins",
            "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
            "category": "surgery",
            "availability": "9.00 a.m - 11.00 a.m",
            "fee": 7000.0
        },
        "patient": {
            "name": "John Doe",
            "dob": "1940-03-19",
            "ssn": "234-23-525",
            "address": "California",
            "phone": "8770586755",
            "email": "johndoe@gmail.com"
        },
        "hospital": "grand oak community hospital",
        "confirmed": false,
        "appointmentDate": "2023-10-02"
    }
    ```

> 4. The consumer service will then send an SMS to the patient's mobile number notifying the appointment status.

Reviewer: Let's use either "appointment status" or "reservation status" everywhere.

### Concepts covered

- REST API
- Message Broker
- HTTP Client
- Twilio Client

## Develop the application

### Step 1: Set up the workspace

Install [Ballerina Swan Lake](https://ballerina.io/downloads/) and the [Ballerina Swan Lake VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=wso2.ballerina) on VS Code.

### Step 2: Develop the service

Follow the instructions given in this section to develop the service.

1. Create a new Ballerina project using the `bal` command and open it in VS Code.

    ```
    $ bal new guaranteed-message-delivery
    ```

> 2. Rename `main.bal` file to `types.bal`, remove the generated content, and open the diagram view in VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Rename the `main.bal` file to `types.bal`, remove the generated content, and open the diagram view in VS Code.
```

>     ![Open diagram view](./resources/open_diagram_view.gif)ope

Reviewer: ope at the end?

        string hospital;
        string appointment_date;
    };
    ```

    Similarly, generate records corresponding to the response payload from the hospital backend service (e.g., `ReservationResponse`). Delete the duplicate `Patient` record generated.

    ```ballerina
    type Doctor record {
        string name;
        string hospital;
        string category;
        string availability;
        decimal fee;
    };

    type ReservationResponse record {
        int appointmentNumber;
        Doctor doctor;
        Patient patient;
        string hospital;
        boolean confirmed;
        string appointmentDate;
    };
    ```

    > **Note:**
    > While it is possible to work with the JSON payload directly, using record types offers several advantages including enhanced type safety, data validation, and better tooling experience (e.g., completion).

    > **Note:** 
    > When the fields of the JSON objects are expected to be exactly those specified in the sample payload, the generated records can be updated to be [closed records](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/controlling-openness/), which would indicate that no other fields are allowed or expected.

> **Now you are going to implement the publsiher's and consumer's logic in two files: `publisher.bal` and `consumer.bal`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Now you are going to implement the publisher and consumer logic in two files: `publisher.bal` and `consumer.bal`**
```

     
    - Define an HTTP resource that allows the `POST` operation on the resource path `/categories/{category}/reserve` and accepts the `category` path parameter (corresponding to the specialization). Use `ReservationRequest` as a parameter indicating that the resource expects a JSON object corresponding to `ReservationRequest` as the payload. Use `http:Created` and `http:InternalServerError` as the response types.

        ![Define the resource](./resources/define_a_resource.gif)

        The generated service will be as follows.

        ```ballerina
        service /healthcare on new http:Listener(8290) {
            resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest request) 
                    returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
                
            }
        }
        ```

5. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the name of the queue.

    ![Define a configurable variable](./resources/define_a_configurable_variable.gif)

    The generated code will be as follows.

    ```ballerina
    configurable string queueName = "ReservationQueue";
    ```

> 6. Create a [rabbitmq:Client](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/rabbitmq/latest#Client) object to forward the message to the message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Create a [rabbitmq:Client](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/rabbitmq/latest#Client) object to publish messages to the message broker.
```

>     - Use RabbitMQ's default host and default port to initialize the client object.

Reviewer: Write this in a generic way and then say we will be using the defaults here.

        resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest request)
                        returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
            Patient patient = request.patient;
            string doctor = request.doctor;
            string hospital = request.hospital;

            rabbitmq:Error? response = rabbitmqClient->publishMessage({
                content: {
                    patient,
                    doctor,
                    hospital_id: request.hospital_id,
                    hospital: hospital,
                    appointment_date: request.appointment_date,
                    category
                },
                routingKey: queueName
            });

            if response is rabbitmq:Error {
                log:printError("Failed to publish to the message broker", patient = patient.name,
                                                                        doctor = doctor,
                                                                        hospital = hospital);
                return <http:InternalServerError>{body: response.message()};
            }

            return http:CREATED;
        }
    }
    ```

>     - Define an `init` function to initialize the service. In there, declare the queue of the message-broker by calling `queueDeclare` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Define an `init` function an declare the queue on the message broker using the `queueDeclare` method on service initialization.
```

>     - In the resource function, first, define three variables and assign them values from the `request`.

Reviewer: resource function -> resource method

I would update the latter part of the sentence to include more details about what the variables are for.

Also, would either use "from `request`" or "from the `request` record".

>     - Call `rabbitmqClient`'s `publishMessage` function to publish the message to the RabbitMQ message-broker.

Reviewer: 1. function -> method when it is an object's method
2. why message-broker instead of message broker?

>     - Use `is` check and return an `http:InternalServerError` if error, else, return `http:CREATED`.

Reviewer: Can we please elaborate why we are doing what we are doing here? E.g., incorporating terms like failure and success.

> 8. Create a file named `consumer.bal` and define the record types needed for the consumer.

Reviewer: Since we already have a types.bal file above, may make sense to say common types there and consumer-specific types here.

Author: Changed as follows.

```
Create a file named `consumer.bal` and first define the consumer-specific record types.
```

I think it is not necessary to mention `types.bal` here if we say `consumer-specific`

    ```ballerina
    type MessageContent record {|
        *ReservationRequest;
        string category;
    |};

    type RabbitMqMessage record {|
        *rabbitmq:AnydataMessage;
        MessageContent content;
    |};
    ```

    > **Note:**
    > Using [record type inclusion](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) allows including all the fields from the included record along with the defined fields.

    > **Note:**
    > Since details in the reservation and the `rabbitmq:AnydataMessage` needed to be merged, a separate record (i.e. `RabbitMqMessage`) is created.

> 9. Define a `rabbitmq:Service` listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the `onMessage` remote method that gets called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Define a RabbitMQ service listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the `onMessage` remote method that gets called.
```

Reviewer: Gets called when? Can improve the description IMO.

    ```
    @rabbitmq:ServiceConfig {

>         queueName: "queueName"

Reviewer: Is this correct? Shouldn't you use the configurable?

    }
    service on new rabbitmq:Listener(rabbitmq:DEFAULT_HOST, rabbitmq:DEFAULT_PORT) {
        remote function onMessage(RabbitMqMessage message) {
            
        }
    }
    ```

    > **Note:**

>     > Here, RabbitMQ's default host and port are used to define the service

Reviewer: Not necessary IMO. Or rephrase to say they are the arguments/configuration.

> 9. Define configurations for the SMS service endpoints (e.g., `fromNumber`, `accountSId`, `authToken`) as [configurable variables](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability).

Reviewer: Define configurable variables (...) for the SMS endpoint configuration.

    ```ballerina
    configurable string fromNumber = ?;
    configurable string accountSId = ?;
    configurable string authToken = ?;
    ```

> 10. Define a [`http:Client`](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#http-client) object to send requests to the hospital backend service and a [`twilio:Client`](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/twilio/latest#Client) object to send SMS to the given phone number via Twilio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Define an [`http:Client`](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#http-client) object to send requests to the hospital backend service and a [`twilio:Client`](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/twilio/latest#Client) object to send SMS messages to the given phone number via Twilio.
```

            } else {
                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment has been accepted at ${hospital
                            }. Appointment No: ${reservationResponse.appointmentNumber}`;
            }

            twilio:Message|error smsApiResponse = twilioEp->createMessage({
                To: content.patient.phone,
                From: fromNumber,
                Body: smsBody
            });

            if smsApiResponse is error {
                log:printError("Failed to send an SMS message", smsApiResponse, phoneNo = content.patient.phone);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    - Extract the necessary values to variables and send a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `hospital_id` and `category` values are used as path parameters.

    - Use the `is` check to decide the flow based on the response to the client call. If the request failed with an error, log the error and set an error message to the `smsBody` variable, else, set a confirmation message.

    - Call the Twilio endpoint with the SMS body and the sender's and patient's phone numbers.

#### Complete source

> <TODO: Complete source code>

Reviewer: Can be added now?

### Step 3: Build and run the Ballerina project

#### Start the RabbitMQ message broker

> Follow the [RabbitMQ guidelines ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials) to configure and start the RabbitMQ message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [RabbitMQ guidelines](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials) to configure and start the RabbitMQ message broker.
```

#### Run the project

> Define the configurable values in the `Config.bal` and run the Ballerina project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the configurable values in the `Config.bal` file and run the Ballerina program.
```

> ![Run the service](./resources/run_the_ballerina_project.gif)

Reviewer: Inconsistent terms, service vs project (vs program).

# Guaranteed Message Delivery

## Overview

> In this tutorial, you will develop an integration that lets users reserve appointments at a hospital. To manage the guranteed flow of reservation requests, you will employ a message broker. A publisher service will accept the appointment requests from users and forward them to a consumer service. A consumer service will consume messages and interact with the hospital service to complete the reservation and send an SMS with the reservation status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will develop an integration that lets users reserve appointments at a hospital. To manage the guranteed flow of reservation requests, you will employ a message broker. A publisher service will accept the appointment requests from users and publish to a message broker. A consumer service will consume messages from the message broker and interact with the hospital service to complete the reservation and send an SMS with the reservation status.
```

        string hospital;
        string appointment_date;
    };
    ```

    Similarly, generate records corresponding to the response payload from the hospital backend service (e.g., `ReservationResponse`). Delete the duplicate `Patient` record generated.

    ```ballerina
    type Doctor record {
        string name;
        string hospital;
        string category;
        string availability;
        decimal fee;
    };

    type ReservationResponse record {
        int appointmentNumber;
        Doctor doctor;
        Patient patient;
        string hospital;
        boolean confirmed;
        string appointmentDate;
    };
    ```

    > **Note:**
    > While it is possible to work with the JSON payload directly, using record types offers several advantages including enhanced type safety, data validation, and better tooling experience (e.g., completion).

    > **Note:** 
    > When the fields of the JSON objects are expected to be exactly those specified in the sample payload, the generated records can be updated to be [closed records](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/controlling-openness/), which would indicate that no other fields are allowed or expected.

> **Now you are going to implement the publsiher and consumer logic in two files: `publisher.bal` and `consumer.bal`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Now you are going to implement the publisher and consumer logic in two files: `publisher.bal` and `consumer.bal`**
```

        ![Define the resource](./resources/define_a_resource.gif)

        The generated service will be as follows.

        ```ballerina
        service /healthcare on new http:Listener(8290) {
            resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest request) 
                    returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
                
            }
        }
        ```

5. Define a [configurable variable](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/#configurability) for the name of the queue.

    ![Define a configurable variable](./resources/define_a_configurable_variable.gif)

    The generated code will be as follows.

    ```ballerina
    configurable string queueName = "ReservationQueue";
    ```

6. Create a [rabbitmq:Client](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/rabbitmq/latest#Client) object to publish message to the message broker.
    

>     - Use preferable host and port values to initialize the client object. For now, use RabbitMQ's default host and port values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use the relevant host and port values to initialize the client object. For now, use RabbitMQ's default host and port values.
```

        resource function post categories/[string category]/reserve(ReservationRequest request)
                        returns http:Created|http:InternalServerError {
            Patient patient = request.patient;
            string doctor = request.doctor;
            string hospital = request.hospital;

            rabbitmq:Error? response = rabbitmqClient->publishMessage({
                content: {
                    patient,
                    doctor,
                    hospital_id: request.hospital_id,
                    hospital: hospital,
                    appointment_date: request.appointment_date,
                    category
                },
                routingKey: queueName
            });

            if response is rabbitmq:Error {
                log:printError("Failed to publish to the message broker", patient = patient.name,
                                                                        doctor = doctor,
                                                                        hospital = hospital);
                return <http:InternalServerError>{body: response.message()};
            }

            return http:CREATED;
        }
    }
    ```

>     - Define an `init` function and declare the queue on the message broker using the `queueDeclare` method on service initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Define the `init` method and declare the queue on the message broker using the `queueDeclare` method on service initialization.
```

>     - In the resource method, first, define three variables (i.e. `patient`, `doctor` and `hospital`) and assign them values from the `request` record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In the resource method, first, define three variables (i.e., `patient`, `doctor` and `hospital`) and assign to them values from the `request` record.
```

>     - Call `rabbitmqClient`'s `publishMessage` method to publish the message to the RabbitMQ message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Call the `publishMessage` method on the `rabbitmqClient` value to publish the message to the RabbitMQ message broker.
```

>     - Use `is` check to verify if the publishing is success or failure. Return an `http:InternalServerError` if error, else, return `http:CREATED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use the `is` check to check if publishing failed. Return an `http:InternalServerError` response on error (i. e., failure), else, return an `http:CREATED` response.
```

8. Create a file named `consumer.bal` and first define the consumer-specific record types.

    ```ballerina
    type MessageContent record {|
        *ReservationRequest;
        string category;
    |};

    type RabbitMqMessage record {|
        *rabbitmq:AnydataMessage;
        MessageContent content;
    |};
    ```

    > **Note:**
    > Using [record type inclusion](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/type-inclusion-for-records/) allows including all the fields from the included record along with the defined fields.

    > **Note:**
    > Since details in the reservation and the `rabbitmq:AnydataMessage` needed to be merged, a separate record (i.e. `RabbitMqMessage`) is created.

> 9. Define a RabbitMQ service listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the `onMessage` remote method that gets called when a messaged is received to the message broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Define a RabbitMQ service listening on a `rabbitmq:Listener` listener with the `onMessage` remote method that gets called when a messaged is published to the specified queue on the message broker.
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```ballerina
````

    @rabbitmq:ServiceConfig {
        queueName
    }
    service on new rabbitmq:Listener(rabbitmq:DEFAULT_HOST, rabbitmq:DEFAULT_PORT) {
        remote function onMessage(RabbitMqMessage message) {
            
        }
    }
    ```

    > **Note:**

>     > Here, RabbitMQ's default host and port are used to define the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                smsBody = string `Dear ${patientName
                            }, your appointment has been accepted at ${hospital
                            }. Appointment No: ${reservationResponse.appointmentNumber}`;
            }

            twilio:Message|error smsApiResponse = twilioEp->createMessage({
                To: content.patient.phone,
                From: fromNumber,
                Body: smsBody
            });

            if smsApiResponse is error {
                log:printError("Failed to send an SMS message", smsApiResponse, phoneNo = content.patient.phone);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    - Extract the necessary values to variables and send a `POST` request to the hospital service to reserve the appointment. The `hospital_id` and `category` values are used as path parameters.

    - Use the `is` check to decide the flow based on the response to the client call. If the request failed with an error, log the error and set an error message to the `smsBody` variable, else, set a confirmation message.

    - Call the Twilio endpoint with the SMS body and the sender's and patient's phone numbers.

#### Complete source

```ballerina

> // type.bal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// types.bal
```
